---
title: "Ambiguity in the financial markets"
date: "2021-07-23"
tags: Ambiguity, financial, risklab
page_image: "./images/cover.jpg"
page_image_alt: "Ambiguity in the financial markets"
page_image_desc: "Numerous machine learning techniques employ stochastic optimization to
optimize the expected performance or loss, such as the mean squared ..."
embeddedImagesLocal:
  - './images/demo.jpg'
---

import { Figure } from "../../components/charts";
import StackChart1 from "./charts/stackChart1";

---

## Ambiguity in the financial markets

Numerous machine learning techniques employ stochastic optimization to
optimize the expected performance or loss, such as the mean squared
error for regressions or the expected discounted return in reinforcement
learning. A solid machine learning model requires accurate estimations
of the distribution of the data-generating process. Nonetheless, the
distribution of the data may be unpredictable for a variety of reasons:
insufficient observations in the stationary case, a time-varying law in
the non-stationary example, or a law sensitive to policy intervention
due to the treatment effect. In robust statistics, a solution to
distributional uncertainty in the data is to formulate a decision-making
problem as a DRO problem.

<StackChart1 />

## Unstructured Data: The main source of information

Unlike structured data — which is organized in a searchable format, like
a database — unstructured data doesn’t adhere to conventional data
models. These forms of data are often more challenging to interpret, the
Deloitte report said, but can deliver a more comprehensive and holistic
understanding of the bigger picture. Because structured data is easier
to work with, companies have already been able to do a lot with it.
Unstructured data, by its definition, is data that doesn’t exist in a
pre-defined model. So, this could include video, audio or entire
documents or emails. Since files themselves contain dates, times, facts
and opinions they hold a wealth of information. Yet, because this isn’t
in a format that can be processed through traditional data analytics,
banks have struggled to analyse it.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Feature Selection

Almost seldom, when developing a machine learning model in practice, are
all variables in the dataset usable for building the model. Adding
redundant variables affects the model's capacity to generalize and may
also reduce a classifier's overall accuracy. Adding ever more variables
to a model raises the model's overall complexity. According to Occam's
Razor's Law of Parsimony, the best explanation for a problem is the one
that makes the fewest assumptions. Consequently, feature selection
becomes an essential component of developing machine learning models.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Financial Modeling

Utilization of machine learning in finance has developed significantly
during the past decade. Learning by machine is a novel methodological
development. Finance employs a variety of machine learning techniques
(supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement learning, and others) to handle
problems that are fundamentally distinct from those addressed by
conventional economic approaches. The most valued application of machine
learning in finance is process automation. The technique of machine
learning can automate repetitive operations, substitute manual labor,
and boost production. Companies are able to minimize their costs,
improve consumer experiences, and scale up their services thanks to
machine learning.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Backtest

Backtesting is the standard way for determining how a strategy or model
would have performed in the past. Backtesting evaluates a trading
strategy's viability by determining how it would have performed using
previous data. If backtesting is effective, traders and analysts may
have the confidence to use it in the future. A well-executed backtest
that delivers favorable results reassures traders that the strategy is
fundamentally sound and likely to generate profits when applied in the
real world. A well-executed backtest that provides unsatisfactory
results, on the other hand, will drive traders to modify or reject the
strategy.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Trading Strategies

There are two possible methods for developing strategies: model-based
and data mining. These are fundamentally contradictory approaches. In
model-based strategy development, we begin with a model of a market
inefficiency, establish a mathematical representation of it, and assess
its long-term viability. Typically, this model is a simplification of
the actual complex model, and its long-term importance and stability
must be confirmed. This category includes prevalent trend-following,
mean-reversion, and arbitrage methods. In contrast, the data mining
approach begins by searching for pricing trends and then attempting to
fit an algorithm to them. It is irrelevant what generates these
patterns, simply that they will continue to repeat in the future. This
is a blind strategy, and we require rigorous checks to distinguish
between real and random patterns. This area includes trial-and-error TA,
candle patterns, and regression on a large number of features.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Portfolio Optimization

Risk-based and heuristic portfolio construction methods have recently
received a great deal of attention from both academics and practitioners
because they do not rely on the estimation of expected returns and are
therefore believed to be more stable than Markowitz's conventional
mean-variance portfolio. In 2016, Lopez de Prado introduced Hierarchical
Risk Parity (HRP), a new technique to portfolio formation that blends
hierarchical clustering of assets with a heuristic risk-based allocation
strategy to improve out-of-sample performance and promote portfolio
stability. Lopez de Prado was able to show encouraging findings using
Monte Carlo simulations.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Risk Management

Risk management is the process of identifying, analyzing, and accepting
or mitigating uncertainty in investment choices in the financial sector.
In essence, risk management happens when an investor or fund manager
examines and attempts to quantify the potential for losses in an
investment, such as moral hazard, and then takes the proper action or
inaction in light of the fund's investment objectives and risk
tolerance. Risk is inseparable from return. Every investment has some
degree of risk, which is near to zero for U.S. Treasury bills and quite
high for emerging-market shares and real estate in highly inflationary
environments. Risk can be measured in both absolute and relative levels.
A solid grasp of risk in its various manifestations can help investors
comprehend the opportunities, trade-offs, and costs associated with
various investing strategies.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Climate Risk

Climatic change is the long-term evolution of global climate patterns.
These alterations are typically attributable to human activity, such as
the consumption of nonrenewable resources such as fossil fuels. These
energy sources contribute to global warming by releasing greenhouse
gases into the atmosphere when they are burned. Climate money is a means
by which individuals and nations may combat climate change. Climate
financing has both broad and specific applications. In its broadest
definition, it refers to a business that employs financial institutions
or technologies to promote environmental sustainability, such as by
creating or deploying additional solar panels or other renewable energy
sources. Climate financing, in its narrow sense, refers to the transfer
of funds from industrialized to developing nations in accordance with
international agreements such as the Paris Agreement of 2016.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Differential Equations

As essential and pervasive as they are in science and engineering,
partial differential equations are notoriously difficult to solve,
assuming they can be solved at all. Even when approximate methods are
employed to solve them, it might take millions of CPU hours to solve
complex PDEs. As the complexity of the challenges we face increases,
from constructing more efficient rocket engines to simulating climate
change, we will require more effective and efficient methods for solving
these equations. Now, scientists have developed artificial neural
networks that can approximate solutions to partial differential
equations orders of magnitude faster than conventional PDE solvers. And
once trained, the new neural networks can solve an entire family of PDEs
without additional training.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />

## Cryptocurrencies

Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies that are supported by
cryptographic protocols. They enable safe internet transactions without
the use of intermediaries. The term "Crypto" refers to the many
encryption algorithms and cryptographic techniques used to protect these
entries, such as elliptical curve encryption, public-private key pairs,
and hashing. One can mine cryptocurrencies or purchase them on
cryptocurrency exchanges. Not all ecommerce websites accept
cryptocurrency payments. Even prominent cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin
are rarely used for retail purchases. However, cryptocurrencies' rising
value has made them attractive as trading instruments. In a limited
capacity, they are also used for international transfers.

<Figure source={props.localImages[0]} caption="demo" />
